What's up, my friend? This is the Life in English podcast,
and I am your sensei, Tony Kaizen. And in this episode, I'm
going to tell you a joke in the form of a story. The joke
comes from a post on Reddit, and the title was "What's a
joke that's so stupid it's funny?" And when I say "so stupid
it's funny", I mean, the level of stupidity is so high that
the only thing you can do is laugh about it. It's not
necessarily funny, but it's so stupid, it makes you laugh,
you know what I'm saying? Now the joke is a story about a
woman and a man who decided to play a little game while on a
flight from Los Angeles to New York, and one of them ends up
losing a lot of money. So I'm going to read it to you now,
and then I'll explain a few keywords and phrases that you
might find useful in your next conversation. Alright? So
let's get into it. "A man and a woman are seated next to
each other on a flight from Los Angeles to New York. The man
asked the woman if she would like to play a fun game. The
woman, tired, just wants to take a nap, so she politely
declines and rolls over to the window to catch a few winks.
The man persists and explains that the game is easy and a
lot of fun. He says, 'I ask you a question, and if you don't
know the answer, you pay me $5 and vice versa.' Again,
she declines and tries to get some sleep. The man, now
agitated, says, 'Okay, if you don't know the answer, you pay
me $5. And if I don't know the answer, I'll pay you $500.'
And this catches the woman's attention and figuring there
will be no end to the torment, she agrees to the game. The
man asked the first question: 'What's the distance from the
earth to the moon?' The woman doesn't say a word. She
reaches into her purse, pulls out a $5 bill, and hands it to
the man. 'Okay', says the man, 'your turn'.
She asks, 'What goes up a hill with three legs and comes
down with four legs?' The man, puzzled, takes his laptop and
searches all his references. No answer. He connects to the
in-flight WiFi and searches on Google and YouTube. No
answer. Frustrated, he sends a text to all his friends and
co-workers and still no luck. After an hour, he wakes the
woman and hands her $500.
The woman thanks him and turns back to get more sleep. The
man -- who is more than a little annoyed -- nudges the woman
and asks, 'Well, what's the answer?' Without a word, the
woman reaches into her purse, hands the man $5, and goes
back to sleep." Alright, my friend.
As I always say, don't worry if you don't understand the
joke. Humor can be difficult to comprehend if you're not
familiar with the language. But I will say that in my
experience, when you can understand jokes and funny stories
without the need for captions or explanations, it's a sign
that you're at an advanced level of comprehension. I
recommend you try listening to stand-up comedy and pay
attention to the words they choose, how they tell stories,
how they use their faces, their voices, and even silence to
take you on a journey with nothing more than their words.
It's truly an art form and it's a great way to get exposed
to a particular culture and its sense of humor. But anyway,
now I'm going to explain a few words and phrases that might
help you understand the story better, as well as help you
sound more natural in your next conversation. Alright, my
friend, Let's do it. So the first thing I want to explain is
"seated next to".
It said, "A man and a woman were seated next to each other
on a flight." And all that means is sitting to the side of
each other or sitting side by side the same way you do on an
airplane, right? You get the idea. So next is "rolls over".
"Rolls over" or "roll over" - the phrasal verb just means to
turn from one side of your body to the other while you're
lying down. So picture her in the airplane seat trying to
get some sleep, and she's lying on one side and she turns
over to the other side to continue sleeping. Hopefully you
can get the idea. So next is "catch a few winks". "She
turned over to catch a few winks." All this means is to
sleep for a short period of time. It basically means to take
a nap. And to be honest with you, I've never heard somebody
say "catch a few winks", like, I understand it, it makes
sense, you can say it if you want. I'm just saying I don't
hear that on a daily basis. I would just say "take a nap".
Some people might say "catch a few Zs" or "catch some
sleep", those things sound more natural to me, but you can
say "catch a few winks", and I imagine most people would
understand what you mean. Alright? But let's continue. Next
is "persist". All this means is "to continue firmly in the
course of action, in spite of difficulty, opposition or
failure". In other words, you do not take no for an answer.
That's what it means to persist. Okay? Next is "vice versa".
All this means, well, the dictionary definition is "with the
main items in the preceding statement the other way around".
The way I would say that is "it works both ways". So if you
don't know the answer, you give me $5. But since it works
both ways, if I don't know the answer, I give you $5. You
see what I'm saying? It works both ways. Alright, the next
word on the list is "agitated". Agitated.
All this means, it's like another word for "irritated" or
"nervous" or something's bothering you. That means you're
agitated. Okay? And next on the list is "figuring" or "to
figure". And all that means is to think or consider or
expect something to be the case. So when...when the story
said, "She figured", or this isn't exactly how it was said,
but the idea is "she figured there would be no end to the
torment". She expected this man to persist and persist and
persist until she said yes. All things considered, she
basically knew, or at least expected that to be the case. If
I keep ignoring him, he's just going to keep asking. Right?
That's what she figured. That's what she understood or
that's the idea she got in her head after thinking about the
situation. I'm sure you get the point. I'm just trying to
explain it in different ways, you know, to make it as clear
as possible. But let's continue. Next on the list is
"torment". To torment someone means to make them feel mental
or physical pain; you cause them to suffer.
See what I'm saying? So she figured that there would be no
end to this man tormenting her. There would be no end to the
torment. You see what I'm saying? Alright, next on the list
is "reaches into". Now "to reach", the verb "reach" just
means to extend your arm typically because you want to grab
something or reach it...or not reach it...but uh...yeah,
bring it into your possession with your hand. So imagine
you're sitting in a chair and your phone is a meter or two
away from you, you have to reach for the phone in order to
grab it. See what I'm saying? You have to extend your arm
and use your hand to grab that object. We call that motion
"reaching for something". Okay? So when she reaches into
something, all that means is to extend your arm and use your
hand to grab something but you're doing it...you're placing
your hand into a container, an enclosed space, like in this
case, her purse or a backpack or a box or something. You
reach into the bag, into the box, into the purse. And then
the next thing I want to explain is "pull out". So she
reached into her purse and pulled out a $5 bill. That's
basically the opposite of "reach into" or it's what happens
after you reach your hand into something. You grab the
object and you pull it out. And you might be asking
yourself, what's the difference between "take out" and "pull
out" and "remove"? In this case, they're all really the same
thing. You might "remove" a dollar from the bag, which is
not the most natural thing to say in this case but it does
make sense. Or you can "take" a dollar out of the bag,
that's just a general phrasal verb in this case. But even
more specific is to "pull out" because you're taking
something out of the bag but with a pulling motion, it's
just more specific but it is the same thing, essentially.
Okay? Hopefully that makes sense. Alright. Next on the list
is "goes up".
To go up just means to move to a higher position or to rise
or to increase. So in this case, "What goes up a hill with
three legs and comes down with four?" "What goes from the
bottom of the mountain to the top?" That's just what it
means to go up - to travel in an upward direction. So next
is "come down", which is basically the opposite. You start
at a high position and you travel to a lower position. You
come down or go down just depending on the situation. Right?
Cool. So next is "puzzled". Puzzled. If you feel puzzled,
that just means you feel confused because you don't
understand a situation or something that somebody has said
or something like that. So, "What goes up a hill with three
legs and comes down with four legs?" When somebody asks you
that, you might feel puzzled because you don't know the
answer. How could I possibly know what that is? I'm confused
by that question. I'm puzzled, you see? Okay, next is the
expression "more than a little". And this is just like a
creative way of saying "a lot". So "He's more than a little
annoyed." Or "He's very annoyed." You see what I'm saying? I
wouldn't say "a lot of annoyed" because in this case, you
know, "a lot of" is for like amount and quantities, "a lot
of people", "a lot of money", things like that. But
"annoyed" is like a feeling. So I would say "very annoyed".
Hopefully that makes sense to you. So if somebody says, "I'm
more than a little upset", it just means "I'm very upset",
right? "I've got more than a little bit of money." "I got
quite a bit of money." And that's not...that example isn't
the most natural but I'm just trying to get you to
understand, it's the same thing as saying "a lot". Okay?
Alright, next is "nudges". To nudge someone is to prod or to
poke someone in a gentle way, typically with your elbow or
your finger because you want their attention. So imagine
them sitting on the plane next to each other. He's not going
to punch her or shove her or push her aggressively to get
her attention. He just *motions nudging* just pokes her
like, boop, boop, boop, boop with the elbow or the finger.
You know what I'm talking about. We call that action nudging
somebody, right? We *motions nudging* tap them gently with
our elbow or finger to get their attention. And last is, "go
back". I think the last line was something like, "She gave
him $5 and went back to sleep," or...or "she goes back to
sleep". Something of that nature. In this case, in phrases
like that, it just means to return to some activity. So if I
go back to sleep, it means I return to my sleep. If I go
back to watching the movie, it means I return to watching
the movie. I start watching it again or I resume that
activity. You see what I'm saying? That's the basic idea.
Hopefully that makes sense. Okay, cool. Alright, my friend,
I'd like to thank you so much for your time and attention as
always. I really hope you enjoyed this episode of The Life
in English podcast. I'm your host, Tony Kaizen, and I will
talk to you soon. Alright. Peace!